Chapter 1
Welcome to Software
Construction
cc2e.com/0178 Contents
¦ 1.1 What Is Software Construction?: page 3
¦ 1.2 Why Is Software Construction Important?: page 6
¦ 1.3 How to Read This Book: page 8
Related Topics
¦ Who should read this book: Preface
¦ Benefits of reading the book: Preface
¦ Why the book was written: Preface
You know what “construction” means when it’s used outside software development.
“Construction” is the work “construction workers” do when they build a house, a
school, or a skyscraper. When you were younger, you built things out of “construction
paper.” In common usage, “construction” refers to the process of building. The construction
process might include some aspects of planning, designing, and checking
your work, but mostly “construction” refers to the hands-on part of creating something.
1.1 What Is Software Construction?
Developing computer software can be a complicated process, and in the last 25 years,
researchers have identified numerous distinct activities that go into software development.
They include
¦ Problem definition
¦ Requirements development
¦ Construction planning
¦ Software architecture, or high-level design
¦ Detailed design
¦ Coding and debugging
¦ Unit testing
4 Chapter 1: Welcome to Software Construction
¦ Integration testing
¦ Integration
¦ System testing
¦ Corrective maintenance
If you’ve worked on informal projects, you might think that this list represents a lot of
red tape. If you’ve worked on projects that are too formal, you know that this list represents
a lot of red tape! It’s hard to strike a balance between too little and too much
formality, and that’s discussed later in the book.
If you’ve taught yourself to program or worked mainly on informal projects, you might
not have made distinctions among the many activities that go into creating a software
product. Mentally, you might have grouped all of these activities together as “programming.”
If you work on informal projects, the main activity you think of when you think
about creating software is probably the activity the researchers refer to as “construction.”
This intuitive notion of “construction” is fairly accurate, but it suffers from a lack of
perspective. Putting construction in its context with other activities helps keep the
focus on the right tasks during construction and appropriately emphasizes important
nonconstruction activities. Figure 1-1 illustrates construction’s place related to other
software-development activities.
Figure 1-1 Construction activities are shown inside the gray circle. Construction focuses on
coding and debugging but also includes detailed design, unit testing, integration testing,
and other activities.
Problem
Definition
Requirements
Development
Software
Architecture
System
Testing
Detailed
Design
Coding and
Construction Debugging
Planning
Integration
Corrective
Maintenance
Unit
Testing
Integration
Testing